Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How's life been
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Working good. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You hear me, yes. So what's good about like right
Tito: Lot family.
Tito: Still have a job, people don't
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How about your girlfriend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's still working. Yeah. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm going to review your treatment plan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Been a while since we've met individually. So I wanted to touch base with some of the treatment plan goals that we had in place when you initially joined the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I would expect that over time, you may have new short term and long term goals that you might want to add to your plan. Okay. Okay, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It says that you're going to attend route every week, but I know you're on your schedule has been changed. So how often do you come to group is it every other week because I feel like I have to do as often as a group.
Tito: Yeah, it's every other week. I just been
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Out of state. Okay. Um, so make sure that you attend group bi weekly I'm in the event that it's your week to come to group and you can't make it in an email, um, because I didn't inquire email with more state with having to go report because you're in the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's not Peace Corps. What are you in army. Sorry, I'm not good with military stuff at all. So you have to correct and listen because you're in the army. Still, if there's more than 30 days of no activity we would still discharging
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, because I know that you travel back and forth the communication is important if you have to miss group on the week that you come let us know. Okay, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, and then another goal was to develop your relapse prevention plan, including strategies for managing relax. Um, how has that been for you because I know you're doing really good with the taker process your cravings are triggers.
Tito: Oh no, don't think like, like when I sleep.
Tito: In my because I know it will be like more than
Tito: Like 12 hours. So I need to start taking my commitment and I guess what our good nights now so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are you taking the quantity and at night for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whereas, like a like a
Tito: Like move a lot and like a
Sweat
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so you get those shaky legs.
Tito: Look, I really like sheep a bag is like
Tito: Not comfortable
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any other things that you would want to add to your treatment plan is our short term goals school
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. Um, what have you noticed the. Have you had any triggers or anything emotional Shakers people, places, things
No.
Tito: No don't really
Tito: See like people are used to seeing you more. So let's come
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Out because
Tito: We're a big influence on what I was doing. And now it's
Tito: Pretty much between me and my girlfriend and my baby so good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why do you live with.
Tito: My girlfriend, my son.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, you also added a goal of wanting to include exercising into your weekly routine because you said that you lack motivation. Don't tell me what's been going on with that.
Tito: That's not really the motivation.
Tito: For the army have to do that. Go PT test every six months now. I always pass
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even though I don't
Tito: Drink as much as I should, but
perks of being skinny again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it sounds like you don't exercise on a regular basis. But when it's time to do the, I guess the physical exercise every six months. That's when you engage in it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, what do you do to just keep yourself physically and emotionally emotionally fit throughout the week.
stay busy, pretty much.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's busy like for you. Tell me about your weekend routine.
Tito: Lately it's been going where sometimes you know my dad will call me so you need some help from a girl from the spot moving some tea.
Tito: Or getting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Out of it. He wanted to finish school. What are you going to school for again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, I haven't.
Tito: I haven't been back to school.
Tito: So suppose I was leaving the army.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For the night
Tito: Kind of like stopped everything I was doing and then it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Kind of fell through.
Tito: And then I got this new job time platinum going back hope I can check. I'm pretty far along.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Has been buddy, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's the new job.
Tito: Dr.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Policies prisoner. Oh wow, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were you doing that when you first started the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know what was the job that you were doing the first hour
I worked at Sunday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh yeah, I was like, I know that you did, but it was like security or something like that. Right. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What what led to the transition to this new job.
Tito: Because my old job was kind of like it was like a job like a career.
Tito: In this one, kinda like to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Get more
Tito: Get more hiring my job. So let's can help you out to those closer. Actually, it's like going 10 minutes away.
Tito: And I was working
Tito: A half drive like an hour so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Allowed to yeah that's really a benefit for you and you said if you would go back to school, it would be for math. Yes, I would you want to use that degree.
Tito: Well, because I'm at Sandia labs. That's where like a lot of like like scientists, I guess where you can I just figured since I already had my my clearance for there that I could just transfer it over.
Tito: And I still have that cleanings, so it's always like back my head and something happens.
Tito: Like I like my new job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nice. Okay. Is your smoke detector deep into something I keep hearing the lobby for my ear.
Tito: That's come
Tito: From your side.
Tito: Yeah, I hear that too, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be
Here to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The next goal was identifying triggers that will increase likelihood of relapse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything that you'd notice
Tito: No, I don't really think that at all, actually.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's good to hear. So there are no triggers it must be something that you doing well to eliminate those triggers. So what has worked for you so that you don't have those triggers.
Tito: Hobbies
Tito: Video games and stuff.
Tito: Taking time with my son.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your social support system look like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good with my pants and
Tito: remediate Emily. I'm a girlfriend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good to talk to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how long have you been to go for a
Tito: Two and a half years.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where did you meet
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With your parents.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't think I delve in much, but what's your cultural background. Wait, where's your family from my mom's from New Mexico. My dad from Mexico. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So were there any cultural
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Perceptions when we found out about your addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, not really. It was just like
Tito: Cuz, no. My parents didn't really do drugs or anything.
Tito: And then that was just because it was in small town and
Tito: That's pretty much where there's nothing else to do. So we did
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That that's how it started for you because it's been so long since you've been in the program. I don't remember how it all started for you.
Tito: Yeah, I was just like my best friend him or just primitive experiments. And I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you're liking it. So then we kind of like move charts. What can we eat and moved up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was it pain pills. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what would you hope to gain out of this whole experience and being in the program.
Tito: Pretty much like
Tito: Anything I put my mind to do and my mind. I can do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The same way you lack motivation. What do you think that comes from
Tito: I don't really lack motivation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what shifted for you. What makes you motivated now.
Tito: Think those cuz I
Tito: I just
Tito: I'd always think about doing something else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For that. But now it's like I don't even have to worry about that anymore.
And go do something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any conflict that you experience in your relationship with your girlfriend. As a result of the job of us.
Tito: Kind of like she obviously she don't like doing that stuff.
Tito: And then once we had our son was like even harder. That's I think that's why I stopped, mostly because pretty much
Time for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's your thoughts on the Suboxone program because some people have the belief that the boxing is just another drug or she, along the lines of, you know, we're right heart health position is is that this is different. This is a new form of sobriety.
Tito: But
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's pretty much how she started like that.
Tito: And then now she's a meeting.
Tito: I kind of don't but that's like just finished my program. So like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: actually accomplished, I guess. Yeah, well what what lets her saying that you don't need it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Cuz I guess you've seen how
Tito: Much better. I am and
Pretty much.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any areas in your life or situations where you feel misunderstood.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Areas of life.
Tito: I kind of used. I used to feel guilty when I was doing it for like because, you know, it's kind of hard to family, friends and stuff. And I was always all my stuff.
But the now like
Tito: I like to go walking around and seeing people and saying hi Ben and stuff. Not feeling embarrassed. I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because we use the only one that ever experienced with drugs.
In my family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any other siblings to. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How many and Are You the oldest medical youngest my
Tito: oldest sister. My older brother than me and my little brother.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, do any of them have an addiction history. No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you were the only one.
Tito: That they didn't even like smoke cigarettes or anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anyone in your family that you could think of ever had a history of addiction.
Tito: I guess like
Tito: Like high young collect to drink but excuse me knows when you put too much stock or like good
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Couple months.
Tito: But not really like something big like to attend meetings and stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm curious to know where this interest with addiction from
Tito: Know what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I cover.
Tito: Claimed over always throughout high school, I never did never did. And then I'd my juniors came when I started going out to friends and stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You guys can probably
Try said to me.
And I liked it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was the first thing you tried engineer.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was there anything going on the family that led to the experimentation in junior high.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The reason why X is because even though you've been sober for a long period of time. It's important to understand the root of what meant to be addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To identify emotional triggers. Any other thing that may put you are ready to want to explore or be interested in the drugs again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I've had patients that have been sober for years and they relapse and the root of the relapse is always an underlying emotional trigger that they never caught Rathbone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it was too late and they slip and then they deal with all this guilt because they bought one I was strong enough, because I've been sober for so long. So why did I slip
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what I always try to work with them on is identifying what were those things that led you to us and first place. What emotions were you trying to suppress
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I can tell you to. There's a lot of people that are bored, but they don't think let me use drugs. I think there's more to it than just boredom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was something some emotion, something that you would not want to feel
Tito: I was kinda like a shy kid.
Tito: So then I becoming more outgoing that's that's that's why I understand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. All right. I make sense and maybe connection, you have a friend the shy kid usually doesn't have a lot of friends, but you have a friend. This is connection does that friend. You see, yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it makes sense. It was more kind of like a peer influence. So with that, you will want to make sure what she said you're already doing is that you're watching who you associate with yes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So pure influence is going to be big for you and you said this made you a little more outgoing. So you want to find other ways to be more outgoing to be social, that doesn't include drugs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if you don't identify you know other methods, what may happen is a relapse justification five
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Years down the road. Another situation may present itself, will you find connection with appear, and if they happen to be a user
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You might be that red flag that might come up again like we're just having fun. It's not a big deal. Other rat. Other thoughts that we use to rationalize our behavior.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this is practical and not just for addiction and other things. There's some people that struggle with anger, depression, anxiety,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they will rationalize their anger through different things like I can control the situation, why can I control the situation which will lead to them to have that distress are outraged outrage and anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So long time because I get the sense you want to taper off and you're done with the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's good. Everybody has their goals when they come in in here and I'm glad that you had a goal coming in and you've been working hard towards that goal since you've been in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To keep in the back of your mind is to always have that awareness of what's going on inside. What am I, needing, what am I lacking. And where is it coming from
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't know if you've been a last groups, but the past few weeks, we've been talking about how thoughts, feelings, and behaviors all have to align, they all work together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So some people that have a management, they'll say, Oh, I go from zero to 100 real quick. And that's not true. It's there was a fight that came up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And sometimes I thought is, I'm being disrespected or not. Say whatever the fact maybe the feeling is anger rage, whatever it is, and the behavior is them lashing out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And some people think they're lashing out is always because they're angry, but when you really play some people have identified, really. I was disappointed and felt rejected, I felt hurt. And so they lash out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For those are different things. I want you to find the connection and the thoughts. The feelings and the behaviors, because I don't get much reflection from you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Lucky can be just enough without access certain question. I'm not going to get answers.
Tito: Well, I never been really tough.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For them. Yeah.
Tito: That's how I talked to some master question.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's awesome. Yeah. And so with that, you know, you want to do the work of reflecting because people that are more talkative.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They start learning about themselves in the conversations, but because you're more introverted, you're more shy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your word may have to come more internally that internal dialogue that you have within yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Either way is fine. I'm not telling you you have to be an extrovert and social to find yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But what I'm saying is, because you're introverted and because you're also busy with a good career with a loving family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You may forget the significance of doing that check in with yourself to find out what exactly you may be thinking maybe feeling and how those thoughts and feelings might be interacting with your behaviors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Make sense
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where do you see yourself in about six months from now.
Tito: Hopefully I moved up to my job.
Tito: And then my son who probably
Tito: walking and talking to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Him.
Tito: Pretty much how I am now just, you know, just six months long road and
Yeah office program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Gave me one goal that you told me, said you want it to for long term goal you want it to retire from the military successfully.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was a direct quote from you. So what would that look like. And is that still a goal for you.
Tito: Yes, I'm still I'm still in the
Tito: Garden. We just can't not have joy anymore because all the
Tito: Code 19 stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is still every month.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you also said you wanted to become a pilot.
Tito: That's always like this is like a dream of mine, I
Tito: Don't know how to go about that but
That's just something that
Tito: I like the goals that you think
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is something that you've always dreamed about. Have you ever explored what that would look like. What's that, so the tape to get you to that point. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, they require.
Of course,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can't hear you. And what was that to
Tito: Transfer to the Air Force and finished my
Tito: Math to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, OK.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So pilots use a math degree, you have to have like some sort of
Schooling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was that last part you broke up an
Tito: Officer in the Air Force, you have to have some kind of schooling.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What other short term or long term goals, but you want to add personal, professional relationship wise.
Just
Tito: I guess I need come so we're transferring my military sealed my civilian to do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I can actually
Tito: Drive on the trips
Tito: Because now I'm just the passenger like it's still like
Security
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there's a military CEO. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you have to do to get the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Broker up here you
Tito: To get the civilian one. Yep. Can you hear me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Now to
Tito: Be up to
Tito: Take the test.
Tito: And then get to a written test and a driving test.
Tito: But since I have my military one. I'll have to do is the writing test.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you have your military CD, would you want a civilian one now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, okay. I thought you had just civilian one, but she wanted to get the military one
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so what type of CDs. Did you meet for your current job that you have
Tito: A license.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm driving
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay so high is along that lines. It's just an upgraded level of transportation yeah I
Tito: Tried to get like a car mechanic, but
Tito: In the garden. There's not really that much jobs.
Tito: So like the truck drivers, kind of like, next, next thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh yeah, like I said, I don't know much about military services are intriguing to me, that would be interesting. So you could take some courses from the military that you're in, to get one of these licenses.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so the civilian license you would be able to drive like what the tapes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To
Tito: Drive semi trucks.
Tito: Okay, from my job is the bus.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any thoughts or questions, anything you want to talk about any recent stressors that you want to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know,
Tito: I just, I actually forgot until
Tito: We have this meeting that I have to do x to the piss test.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Tito: Cuz I didn't. I never received on top. It's called practice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, well thanks for coming to our appointment and when I see you on Monday for group. Yeah, okay.
Tito: Sorry, sorry I was late. Who's, who's kind of like a long week
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, no problem. I just got nervous because I was like, I know he confirmed. But yeah, I think today is a busy day for groups. So that's why I like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, thanks. Have a good night.
Tito: Bye bye.